
Slackware Linux Help
____________________

First, a little help on help.  Whenever you encounter a text
viewer like this during the installation, you can move around
with these commands:

PGDN/SPACE     - Move down one page
PGUP/'b'       - Move up one page
ENTER/DOWN/'j' - Move down one line
UP/'k'         - Move up one line
LEFT/'h'       - Scroll left
RIGHT/'l'      - Scroll right
'0'            - Move to beginning of line
HOME/'g'       - Move to beginning of file
END/'G'        - Move to end of file
'/'            - Forward search
'?'            - Backward search 
'n'            - Repeat last search (forward) 

Also, you're running a real multitasking operating system now, so
you're not confined to the installation program.  You can log into
other consoles and look around at any time without disturbing the
installation process.  To do this, you need to learn the commands
that control the Linux console.  You'll use these commands all the
time when you're logged into Linux.

"Virtual" consoles and scrollback:

Right now, the screen you're looking at is probably VIRTUAL CONSOLE
NUMBER ONE, (or /dev/tty1 in Linux-speak).  There are usually
several virtual consoles available.  When you log into the install
disk, there are four consoles.  To switch among them, use Alt-F1,
Alt-F2, Alt-F3, or Alt-F4 to select which of the four consoles you
wish to use.  While you're using a console, you get a small amount
of text scrollback buffer.  To scroll the console back, hold down
the right shift key and hit PageUp.  To scroll the console forward,
hit PageDown while holding the right shift key down.  This can be
especially useful for reading the boot messages, which can go by
too fast to read otherwise.

On the install disk, the first three consoles are login consoles.
The fourth console is used to show informational messages during
installation, such as disk formatting status, kernel messages, and
so on.

A useful trick is to log into the second virtual console during the
installation.  Then you can use commands such as 'df' to check how
full your hard drive is getting.  Also, once the Slackware CD-ROM
has been mounted on /cdrom, most of the commands in the disc's live
filesystem will be usable.


PARTITIONING YOUR DRIVE

Now lets take a look at how you progress through a typical Linux
installation with the Slackware distribution.  First, you'll have
to make sure your hard drive has been partitioned to accept Linux.
The setup program does not do this for you.

You will need at least one type Linux partition, and optionally a
swap partition.  In my opinion, (if you have a fair amount of drive
space) it's easiest to manage a system that's partitioned along these
lines (ignoring any DOS or Boot Manager partitions for the purposes
of this illustration):

    [ 2 gig or more for / ] 
    [ whatever space users need for /home ]
    [ swap space (128 MB) ]

Some people like a separate partition for /usr/local, but I find that
I usually regret dividing my free space when I don't have to... the
partition I want to add to is always full that way. :^)  Besides, when
the time comes for an operating system upgrade you can always back up
/usr/local regardless of whether it occupies its own partition.  In
fact, having a separate /home partition is also optional.  Probably the
simplest way to approach things initially is with just a single root
Linux partition, and a swap partition of about 128 megabytes.

The amount of drive space you'll want to give Linux depends on what 
software you plan to install, and how much space you have to spare. 
My primary Linux partition is 4 gigabytes.  If you've got that
kind of room to spare, it will make it easier to compile and try out
large pieces of software, or to work with large files such as might be
used in desktop publishing or CD-ROM mastering applications.

The entire Slackware system (everything -- all the X servers, Emacs,
the works) will use a little more than one gigabyte of hard drive space,
so 1.5 - 2 gigs is sufficient for a complete installation.

In the past, I've actually done development work on a single / 
partition of 110 MB.  (Of course, that was back in the days of Linux
version 0.99p11 or so...)  Still, with careful selection you can still
squeeze a small Linux system onto a Zip disk.  (In fact, we do
exactly that with "ZipSlack")

Partitioning is done with a partitioning tool such as fdisk.  There are
two versions of Linux fdisk available now.  'fdisk' is the standard
version, and 'cfdisk' is a friendlier full screen version.  Most
people will probably want to use 'cfdisk' now, unless they're used
to the older version (like me).  Either one will get the job done.

If you're using OS/2's Boot Manager, you'll want to create your Linux
partitions with OS/2 fdisk or Partition Magic (which also includes
the same Boot Manager program) and format them under DOS or OS/2.
This seems to make Boot Manager boot Linux partitions more reliably.
Otherwise, Boot Manager might refuse to boot your root Linux partition,
giving you a "Selected partition is not formatted" error.  Make sure
you use Linux fdisk to tag them as type 83 (Linux) or type 82
(Linux swap) or the Slackware setup program will not recognize them.
Use the 't' command for that, and 'w' to write out the changes.

If you're not using the OS/2 Boot Manager, you can make all your Linux
partitions directly from Linux 'cfdisk'.  Or you can make them with the
older 'fdisk' using the 'n' command to create a partition and the 'w'
command to write out the changes when you're done. 

By default, 'fdisk' and 'cfdisk' will partition the first hard drive in
your machine.  On machines with IDE, this will be /dev/hda.  On machines
with only SCSI, it will be /dev/sda.  To partition other drives, you'll
have to specify the drive to partition when you start 'cfdisk'.  For
example, to partition the second IDE drive:

  # cfdisk /dev/hdb

SWAP SPACE

If your machine doesn't have much memory, you might have already
learned how to activate a swap partition just to make it this far.
Normally you won't need to format or activate your swap space by
hand, but if you're installing on a machine with low memory you will
need to format and activate a swap partition of 4 (or preferably 
more, anywhere up to about 64) megabytes to be able to install. 
Once you've made the partition with fdisk, you need to use 'mkswap'
on it, and then activate it with 'swapon'.  Checking the partition
table with 'fdisk -l', we see these lines:

   Device Boot  Begin   Start     End  Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdb2         922     922     966   11160   82  Linux swap

So, the command to format would be:

  # mkswap /dev/hdb2
  # sync

And to activate it:

  # swapon /dev/hdb2

RUNNING THE SETUP PROGRAM

Setup has quite a few options, which can be slightly confusing the
first time you look at the menu.  It's not really that hard, though.
You just need to start at the top of the screen and work towards 
the bottom through the menu options.  When I install, I usually do 
these options in order:

ADDSWAP   (set up my swapspace)
TARGET    (set up my Linux partitions and /etc/fstab)
SOURCE    (select the source location for the Slackware Linux
           packages)
SELECT    (pick the package categories to install)
INSTALL   (install the software)
CONFIGURE (configure the newly installed system)

Note that after I select the SWAP option, setup will allow me to
run through all of the other options without ever returning to the
main menu. 

I hope that these options will be mostly self-explanatory. Just read
the screen carefully as you install and you should do just fine.

REMAPPING YOUR KEYBOARD:

KEYMAP: This option lets you remap your keyboard to one of the many
international maps provided with Linux. If you are using a US 
keyboard, you can skip this option.


...WHEN YOU'RE DONE:

EXIT: This leaves Slackware Linux setup.


Have fun installing and running Linux!

---
Patrick Volkerding
volkerdi@slackware.com
