PROMPT MODE HELP

Software packages are about to be transfered onto your
hard drive. If this is your first time installing Linux,
you should probably use PROMPT mode.

This will follow a defaults file on the first disk of
each series you install that will ensure that required
packages are installed automatically. You will be 
prompted for the installation of other packages. These
defaults are user definable -- you may set any package
to be added or skipped automatically by editing your
choices into a file called TAGFILE that will be found
on the first disk of each series. There will also be a
copy of the original tagfile called TAGFILE.ORG
available in case you want to restore the default
settings. The tagfile contains all the instructions
needed to completely automate your installation. 

NOTE: Software may be added to your system after the
initial installation. Just type 'setup' to add software
to your system. Another script, PKGTOOL, may be used to
add software packages from the current directory, or to 
cleanly remove packages that you want uninstalled.

If you don't use PROMPT mode, the install program will 
just go ahead and install everything from the disk sets
you have selected. It's possible that the resulting
system will be less than optimal. If you want to
automate the install process, it is recommended that
you edit the tagfiles and use PROMPT mode rather than
just installing all the packages blindly, especially
since a few overlap. (such as the X11 and non-X11
versions of GNU Emacs)

If you use tagfiles, you might want to use a custom 
tagfile that you have created yourself instead of the
default ones that come with Slackware (the ones named
'tagfile'). For instance, I use custom tagfiles called
'tagfile.pat' that you might see on your disks. :^) You
make a custom tagfile by copying the 'tagfile' on the
first disk of a series to a file named 'tagfile.???'
where .??? is a custom extension of your choosing. (I use
'.pat') Once you've done this, you can edit the defaults
any way you like. (but be careful about changing stuff
that was installed by default) 

You may also create custom tagfiles automatically from
the MAKE TAGS menu option.

To use a custom tagfile, just choose Custom on the
prompt mode menu, and enter your custom extension. Any
tagfiles with this extension will then be used for the
duration of the installation. If at any point a tagfile
with that extension cannot be found, the default tagfile
will be used instead.

You may also provide a path to where your custom
tagfiles are located. In this case, you do not use a
custom extension - all your tagfiles will be named
'tagfile'. You'll provide a directory path such as
/my/tagfile/path. In this directory will be
subdirectories for each disk you wish to provide a
tagfile for. You do not have to provide a
subdirectory and tagfile for each disk you plan to
install - if a tagfile is not found at your custom
tagfile location then the default one in the
package directory will be used.

-- End of prompt mode help text

